---
layout: page
title: Thinking Aloud about Atoms of Confusion
permalink: /2020-think-aloud/
tags: think-aloud
---

<div class="toc">
  <h4 class="toc-title">Materials</h4>
  <ul>
    <li><a href="{{site.paper_url.think_aloud}}">Paper</a></li>
    <li><a href="/2020-think-aloud/preparation">Preparation</a></li>
    <li><a href="/2020-think-aloud/interview_instructions">Interview Instructions</a></li>
    <li><a href="/2020-think-aloud/data">Data</a></li>
    <!--
      <li><a href="/2020-think-aloud/transcripts">Transcripts</a></li>
      <li><a href="/2020-think-aloud/instruments">Instruments</a></li>
    -->
    <li><a href="/2020-think-aloud/analysis">Analysis</a></li>
  </ul>
</div>

# Replication Package

This package is intended to offer transparency into the design, analysis, and
results for the paper:

[_Thinking Aloud about Confusing Code: A Qualitative Investigation of Program Comprehension_]({{site.paper_url.think_aloud}})

The information contained in this package falls broadly in to four categories,
each of which have received their own directory: preparation, interview_instructions,
data, and analysis.

## [Preparation](preparation)

These files were all used in the preparation of the study. They helped define
and select which snippets of code would be evaluated, as well as create the
instruments used in each interview.

* **[instrument-0000.pdf](preparation/instrument-0000.pdf)**: An example instrument that could have been issued to a
  subject.
* **[question_snippets.csv](preparation/question_snippets.csv)**: A CSV listing every snippet chosen for inclusion in
  this study. Includes headers:
  * atom: Which atom of confusion is contained or removed from the snippets.
  * type: Whether the snippet contains an atom (C), was hypothesized but not
  confirmed to contain an atom (HC), has an atom removed (NC), or was
  hypothesized but not confirmed to have an atom removed (HNC).
  * qid: The "question identifier", or the number used to represent snippet
  sample. Also called _snippet\_id_ in other files.
  * source: The C source code of the snippet.
* **[question_orders.csv](preparation/question_orders.csv)**: A CSV listing the orders of snippets shown to
  subjects during each interview, containing two rows:
  * subject\_id: Which subject does this line pertain to
  * question\_order: A space-separated list of snippet id's. These correspond to the
    _qid_ column in the above _questions\_snippets.csv_ file.
* **[question_orders.rb](preparation/question_orders.rb)**: A ruby script for semi-randomly generating instrument
  orders. The number of each type of snippet is dictated by variables in the
  script, and are defaulted to containing 5 atom-containing snippets, and 1 each
  of all other types of atoms. The output of this file is a csv, of the same
  structure as _questions\_orders.csv_.
* **[build_instruments/](preparation/build_instruments/)**: This directory contains scripts and templates necessary for creating instrument
pdfs.
    * **instrument-\*.mustache**: [Mustache](http://mustache.github.io/) templates of
    Latex files used to create instruments. The template is required to substitute
    in subject-specific information such as their subject\_id and the specific set
    of snippets assigned to them.
    * **[build_instrument.rb](preparation/build_instruments/build_instrument.rb)**: The ruby script that generates instrument pdfs from
    the templates described above. The Mustache ruby gem must be installed. In
    order to run, build\_instrument.rb requires a subject\_id and a list of
    snippet\_id's (sometimes called qid's) to create the pdf. The easiest way to do
    this is to supply as an argument a _question\_orders.csv_ from the parent
    directory.
    * **out/**: A blank directory that will be filled with pdf files after running
    build\_instrument.rb.


## [Interview Instructions](interview_instructions)

These documents were provided to the study leader before every interview to
serve as a refresher on how to conduct the study.

* **[Preflight-Checklist.pdf](interview_instructions/Preflight-Checklist.pdf)**: A checklist of items to bring, and procedures to
  perform before each interview to condition the study leader to behave as
  uniformly as possible during the study.
* **[Meta-protocol.pdf](interview_instructions/Meta-protocol.pdf)**: A specific set of instructions about how to behave
  during the interviews, with high-level recommendations as well as scripts for
  specific interactions that commonly arise.
* **[universal_answer_key.csv](interview_instructions/universal_answer_key.csv)**: The correct outputs for each program sample
  shown to subjects. It can be useful to review these during an interview to
  make sure the study leader doesn't accidentally miss an error from the
  subject.

## [Data](data)

The raw output from the interviews, both transcripts of the audio and the
written artifacts generated by subjects.

### [transcripts/](data/transcripts)

The audio from each interview was transcribed into .txt format. Personally
identifying information was stripped. The text is annotated with comments in
square brackets []'s with comments including when new snippets were shown to the
subject, e.g. [Snippet 1] would indicate that the subject was just shown the
snippet with ID 1. Other comments include things like [laughter], or [company]
to indicate non-verbal interactions or personally identifying information,
respectively.

### [instruments/](data/instruments)

The raw instruments were originally generated with several pages that were
removed from the scans included in this package. The pages were removed for
privacy concerns or to limit redundancy, as listed below:

* Page 1: Introductory page describing the nature of the research and signature line
for informed consent [removed for privacy concerns]
* Page 2: Directions page that explains how to complete the tasks in the study
 [removed due to redundancy]
* Pages 11-12: Demographic survey [removed for privacy concerns]

An unused example copy of the instrument, as well as the latex templates that
created it are available in the [preparation](preparation) directory of this package.

Regarding the color of writing on each page, the pen given to subjects was
changed during different phases of the study. In the beginning when subjects
were working on their own without researcher interaction, they used a black
pen. After they completed the first phase of the study and the study leader
engaged them in a dialog, they were given a red pen. When viewing the written
instruments then, black ink indicates thoughts formulated by the participant
alone, while writing in red ink may be affected by interactions with the study
leader.

## [Analysis](analysis)

The codes (labels) assigned to the text are found in this directory.

* **[code_descriptions.csv](analysis/code_descriptions.csv)**: lists each of the 153 types of codes assigned and a
brief description of when they are applicable.
* **[codes.csv](analysis/codes.csv)**: lists the 1808 applications of the codes, columns are:
  * subject: The ID of the subject, and consequently which transcript, the code
    is applied to.
  * start_offset: Where in the document the labeled text begins, counted in
    number of characters.
  * end_offset: Where in the document the labeled text ends, counted in number
    of characters.
  * code: The name of the label applied.
  * text: The segment of the interview to which the code is applied.
